---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
title: "Thru-Hike Packing II: First Aid Complex"
teaser: "Part 2 of my process of putting together a thru-hike pack: first aid items."
teaster: "Part 2 of my process of putting together a thru-hike pack: first aid items"
#
# Styling
#
image:
   thumb: "6.firstaid_thumb.png"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "6.firstaid.png"
    caption: 
---

I'm not a wilderness camper! Just a thru-hiker concerned with keeping herself clean, safe, and comfortable on her journey. So my first aid complex helps me with things I can treat myself (i.e. headaches, soreness, blisters, sunburn, heatrash). For any more complex first aid issues (i.e. possible broken bones), I check my location often and bring an emergency battery pack in case I needed to call for help. 

Because these items are IMPORTANT, I aimed to keep them as dry and intact as possible - they'll spoil if they get the least bit wet. So I sometimes added rice to their mini zipper bags to keep the moisture away. Or I kept them in their original blister packs, but cut the the pack down into smaller pieces.

With the first aid complex, I didn't use weight as reason to cut an item down or out. These were the questions I asked myself: 

<ul>
    <li>"If I needed this (i.e. for a headache or soreness) how many would I need per day?"</li>
    <li>"Will this really be able to help me (i.e. is the bandaid adhesive fresh or old?)"</li>
    <li>"How many things can I use this for? (i.e. gauze takes up space but is versatile)"</li>
</ul>

To start, I went out and got a mini first aid kid. It had many items I needed already. I took out a few things I knew I wouldn't use and added a few, such as: 

<ul>
    <li>Acetaminophen</li> 
    <li>Ibuprofen - I packed these gel capsules with rice to ward off moisture.</li>
    <li>Allergy Medication - I cut down the blister pack it came in.</li>
    <li>Polysporin</li> 
    <li>Sunscreen Stick</li>
    <li>Fabric Bandaids</li>
    <li>Alcohol wipes</li>
    <li>Carillon Cream - soon, I moved this to my daily-use hygiene kit.</li>
</ul> 

I'm so glad I added more good-quality bandaids and alcohol wipes! The most common first-aid issue I got was blisters. It sounds like nothing, but a gnarly blister festering in my moist boot nearly ruined my hike! And I packed all of this into a medium-sized FREEZER zipper back (freezer = durable). 

By going on a long thru-hike I naturally open myself up to risks I don't face daily. And even though I'm often tempted to pack other medication or materials to cover all kinds of risks, I stick to items that I actually think I'll use. And in the rest of my pack, I make sure to pack clothes that double as gauze or a sling in an emergency. 
