---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
title: "Thru-Hike Packing I: Hygiene Complex"
teaser: "Part 1 of my process of putting together a thru-hike pack, beginning with daily hygiene items."
teaster: "Part 1 of my process of putting together a thru-hike pack, beginning with daily hygiene items"
#
# Styling
#
image:
   thumb: "5.hygiene_thumb.png"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "5.hygiene.png"
    caption: 
---

When putting together my thru-hike pack, my goal is for everything to make sense, to be easily accessible, and easily packable. I got the idea from other hikers to separate each need as a "complex" - sleep, food, hygiene, first aid, emergencies, etc. Hygiene, first aid, and emergencies might seem similar, but here's how I define them: 

<ul>
    <li><b>Hygiene Complex</b> - daily personal cleanliness routine (i.e. toothbrush)</li>
    <li><b>First Aid Complex</b> - treatment for personal pain and infection (i.e. advil, polysporin)</li>
    <li><b>Emergency Complex</b> - dealing with emergency situations (i.e. canvas rip, getting lost)</li> 
</ul>
    
Each complex is packed separately because smaller bags are easier to see through and manage. For example, I use my hygiene multiple times each day, it goes at the very top of my pack. 

Even though I don't think weighing each item is MANDATORY, working with real data helped me thinks things through. When packing hygiene items I asked myself: 
<ul>
    <li>“How can I make that smaller and/or lighter?”</li>
    <li>“Will this make my trek more enjoyable?”</li> 
    <li>“Am I packing this because I’m smart or scared?”</li> 
</ul>

To save space for other things, I cut down anything I could. I selected things - like soap and insect repellent - that were handmade by local, conscious crafters for their good quality and smaller impact on nature. And I tried to limit my waste.  

These are the items I ultimately had in my hygiene complex:

<ul>
    <li>Bamboo Toothbrush</li>
    <li>Toothpaste Tablets</li> 
    <li>Silk Toothfloss - its texture cleans so well!</li>
    <li>Tissue Pack</li>
    <li>Insect Repellent - Handmade, friendlier than DDT, smells amazing.</li> 
    <li>Natural Soap - Handmade, worked so well, doubled as detergent.</li>
    <li>6” x 9” Microfibre Towel</li>
    <li>Daily Vitamins</li>
    <li>Alcohol Spray Bottle</li>
    <li>Lightweight Comb - I really appreciated it with the humidity.</li>
    <li>Carillon Cream</li>
</ul> 

I also kept space for things that are specific to my extra needs, such as contact lens cases and solution. For example, you might need extra orthodontic support or menstrual items. 

Finally, I counted out smaller pieces (i.e. toothpaste tabs, soap, daily vitamins) and packed the exact amount I needed into resuable, mini zipper bags. And packed it all together in a medium FREEZER zipper bag (freezer = durable!). 


