---
layout: page
#
# Content
#
title: "Troubleshooting Anemia"
teaser: "Throughout my life, I've dipped into periods of anemia and somehow recovered. Most recently, it wasn't just fatigue; my immune system took a huge hit too."
teaster: "Throughout my life, I've dipped into periods of anemia and somehow recovered. Most recently, it wasn't just fatigue; my immune system took a huge hit too."
#
# Styling
#
image:
   thumb: "4.anemia_thumb.png"
header:
    image_fullwidth: "4.anemia.png"
    caption: 
---
 
Growing up, I wasn't as athletic and severe fatigue couldn't hold me back from reading. So I wasn't diagnosed with <a href="https://www.hopkinsmedicine.org/health/conditions-and-diseases/irondeficiency-anemia">anemia</a> until later in life. 

As an adult, it’s easier to tell when I’m becoming anemic even without a blood test. Every effort starts to feel impossible - even trying to think is hard. Why does it happen? I'm not 100% sure, but after so many years, my anemia seems to be caused by <i>the combination</i> of high physical, mental, and emotional stress factors.  

I started to feel fatigued this fall and soon came down with a cold. Then things got more complicated. I couldn't seem to shake it or any subsequent illness I got in a very short timeframe.

Normally, I take iron supplements but this time it wasn't so easy. So these are the additional steps I'm taking to help my body defend itself again: 

<b>Diet</b> 

I'm still taking iron supplements, but <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8rjccoRDvJQ">Ayurvedic sources</a> have given me some more ideas, such as ingesting some iron sources when they're warm:

<ul>
    <li>Sautéed spinach with toppings like garlic and lemon zest.</li>
    <li>Beef liver</li> 
    <li>Hot water with honey and lemon</li>
    <li>Pre-mixed green smoothies containing 3.1mg iron</li>
    <li>Steamed beets with horseradish - an Eastern European dish</li> 
    <li>Elderberry syrup</li>
</ul>

<b>Exercise</b> 

Heavy workouts are still tough to do, so my movements are mild:
 
<ul>
    <li>Moving my neck and shoulders while laying down or sitting</li> 
    <li>I Y T exercises</li>
    <li>Alternating walking for 15-20 minutes and resting for 10 minutes, for max 1 hour.</li> 
    <li>Shortening my normal 3-superset x 3 workout to 2-superset x</li> 
</ul>

<b>Other</b> 

These strategies are meant to ward off symptoms in the meantime: 

<ul>
    <li><a href="https://vidyaliving.com/natural-beauty-series-oil-pulling-neem-2/">Oil pulling</a></li>
    <li><a href="https://www.healthforlifend.com/blog/doctors-blog/naturopathic-medicine-wet-sock-treatment/">Wet Sock Technique</a></li>
    <li>Chamomile tea - Even though chamomile is sometimes thought to inhibit iron absorption, I felt much better when I switched out other teas for chamomile.</li>
</ul>